Hey what's up.
Today we're gonna start learning how to create our first menu in WordPress.
At the end of the next two lessons you have a horizontal menu similar to this one in the layout.
Ready.
So let's get started.
Well so far we have no menu created.
So if we head over to the dashboard appearance menu you'll notice that we don't have any way to create
a menu yet in order to manage our own menus you'll have to do something in the functions that PDB file.
This file will help us register our menus so that we can use them in our theme before creating a menu.
Let's create some static pages within WordPress as this is the first time we will be curating a page
or a post in the course.
Let me just clarify one thing.
This course has been created with Wordpress Version 4 currently WordPress is already in Version 5 between
the last updates of Version 4 and Version 5.
A new editor emerged in WordPress called Gutenberg.
It's a new content creation experience.
Little like that of a page builder.
However the existence of a new editor changes very little.
The way you create themes in WordPress that is everything I teach you here in this course remains 100
percent valid.
Okay.
The only thing you notice is that my page and post editing screens are a little different.
If you've never worked with Wordpress prior to version 5 you'll notice that my editor is a little different.
It is called the classic editor.
All the tools I use inside the old editor the classic editor also exist in the new editor.
Okay.
Might just have a little more work to find them.
If you have any difficulties.
You can contact me and I will be glad to help you out.
But from what I've noticed so far very few students are having trouble finding the tools.
Just a warning for those who didn't like the new editor at the moment I am recording this video.
Wordpress is announcing that it will support the classic editor on June 20 22 or as long as it's necessary.
So you'd better get used to using the new editor.
The Gutenberg editor at the end of this course you see that I have prepared seven lessons about a new
editor.
There are also explain how to get your feet ready to work with it.
So I think you'll love it.
But for now let's get on with the lesson.
Let's head over two pages at new let's create some pages then the first one is gonna be the home page
for all the pages.
I'm gonna just write a minimal description.
So this is the home page.
Now the blog page
about is
contact.
Now we can start registering our menu.
But what do I mean by registering a menu.
Well it means nothing more than logically creating it within wordpress so we can use it later.
The first thing we're going to do is use a wordpress function called register nav menus like every function
call it has dispenses that opens and closes and the same call at the end.
This function allows us to define an array which in a simpler definition is only a list of elements.
Library going to use an array because we can register more than one menu at a time.
This is even an exercise you can do yourself.
Do you remember that we have two menus in our layout.
One at the top of the page and another one at the bottom.
So I'm going to register one of these menus in this lesson and your exercise will be registered as second
menu.
Okay.
Why do you think about this exercise.
The first element inside this array is gonna be the menu slug that is to say a short name for it.
I'm gonna create this log called my other score main on the score menu.
Don't forget you write this value with lowercase letters and no spaces.
You can use dashes and underscores as I did myself the value of this element of the array will be the
name that will show within the admin area that is a more friendly name.
In our case it will be main menu.
Don't worry because soon you will understand where this value was shown.
Okay.
Now an important information.
If I add a comma here I can register a second menu.
In fact I can register multiple menus within the single function.
I can add a new slug and a new value each menu corresponds to what WordPress calls a position.
So I would have a second registered menu position here but I will not do that now.
This will be a little exercise for you guys.
So I'll go ahead and delete this for now.
And now when I save this file and get back to the dashboard reload and page if I hover over to the appearance
menu you see that I mean use option is now available when I click on menus we get to the menu admin
area of WordPress WordPress creates automatically a menu called menu one.
I can stay with this menu or I can create a new one by clicking on this link above.
Let's go ahead and click on this link I want you give a name for this menu.
And um the name of it is gonna be top menu.
It could also be main menu.
Anyway I'm going to click on Create menu by the time the menus graded two options which show below automatically
add new top level pages to this menu.
I'm gonna leave this option checked and this means that the moment I create a new static page it will
automatically be added to my menu.
I'll show this in practice in the next lesson right.
And the checkbox below display location is to indicate a menu position in the menu.
Remember that we added two text strings to the menu menu registered in our functions file the first
one was this large menu a key and the second string was a description for the menu its corresponding
value.
The text that we have here corresponds to that second string that is to say the menu description.
In our case.
Main menu.
If I chose this option I'll be telling WordPress that the menu I'm creating right now will be relative
to the main menu that I've registered in the function's file.
So I'll go ahead and click on Save menu.
So is it over.
No.
Is not ready yet because we don't have the menu items that you see on the left side that I can choose
to add some items to my recently created menu.
I have a list of pages post custom links categories etc. here on pages I have those pages I created
earlier in the lesson to remember them so I am going to add all these pages to my menu to do this.
I just select one by one and click on this add to menu button
I can also reorder the items if I want.
Now I need to save the menu.
Once again and now the menu is ready.
Well it's ready at least in the admin area because this is not enough to have our menu displayed on
the front end.
Yeah let's visit the home page.
Refresh the page and you can see that we don't have any menu here yet.
Only this word menu and nothing else.
So what more do we need.
Well we need to indicate in the header that PDB file that the menu created in the admin and registered
in functions file will be position it in this specific place here but that will be a subject for the
next lesson.
So see you later.